README.md, before:

# A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification

This repo contains the reference source code for the paper [A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04232) in International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2019). In this project, we provide a integrated testbed for a detailed empirical study for few-shot classification.
With additions for our project work in the lecture [Optimization for machine learning](https://edu.epfl.ch/coursebook/en/optimization-for-machine-learning-CS-439) at EPFL.

To reproduce our experiments run [Determine_additional_iterations.ipynb](https://github.com/Baschdl/CloserLookFewShot/blob/master/Determine_additional_iterations.ipynb) and [Experiments.ipynb](https://github.com/Baschdl/CloserLookFewShot/blob/master/Experiments.ipynb).

## Citation
If you find our code useful, please consider citing our work using the bibtex:
```
@inproceedings{
chen2019closerfewshot,
title={A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification},
author={Chen, Wei-Yu and Liu, Yen-Cheng and Kira, Zsolt and Wang, Yu-Chiang and  Huang, Jia-Bin},
booktitle={International Conference on Learning Representations},
year={2019}
}
```

## Enviroment
 - Python3
 - [Pytorch](http://pytorch.org/) >= 1.0
 - json

To install the dependencies use `pip3 install -r requirements-cpu.txt -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html` or `pip3 install -r requirements-gpu.txt`.

## Getting started
### CIFARFS
* Change to directory ./filelists/CIFARFS
* run `source ./download_Cifar.sh`
* run `python3 create-dataset.py` which you can edit to create a different dataset by choosing other classes

### CUB
* Change directory to `./filelists/CUB`
* run `source ./download_CUB.sh`

### mini-ImageNet
* Change directory to `./filelists/miniImagenet`
* run `source ./download_miniImagenet.sh` 

(WARNING: This would download the 155G ImageNet dataset. You can comment out correponded line 5-6 in `download_miniImagenet.sh` if you already have one.) 

### mini-ImageNet->CUB (cross)
* Finish preparation for CUB and mini-ImageNet and you are done!

### Omniglot
* Change directory to `./filelists/omniglot`
* run `source ./download_omniglot.sh` 

### Omniglot->EMNIST (cross_char)
* Finish preparation for omniglot first
* Change directory to `./filelists/emnist`
* run `source ./download_emnist.sh`  

### Self-defined setting
* Require three data split json file: 'base.json', 'val.json', 'novel.json' for each dataset  
* The format should follow   
{"label_names": ["class0","class1",...], "image_names": ["filepath1","filepath2",...],"image_labels":[l1,l2,l3,...]}  
See test.json for reference
* Put these file in the same folder and change data_dir['DATASETNAME'] in configs.py to the folder path  

## Train
Run
```python3 ./train.py --dataset [DATASETNAME] --model [BACKBONENAME] --method [METHODNAME] [--OPTIONARG]```

For example, run `python ./train.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`  
Commands below follow this example, and please refer to io_utils.py for additional options.

## Save features
Save the extracted feature before the classifaction layer to increase test speed. This is not applicable to MAML, but are required for other methods.
Run
```python3 ./save_features.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug```

## Test
Run
```python3 ./test.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug```

## Results
* The test results will be recorded in `./record/results.txt`
* For all the pre-computed results, please see `./record/few_shot_exp_figures.xlsx`. This will be helpful for including your own results for a fair comparison.

## Docker
If you want to use Docker, build the container with `docker build -t closerlookfewshot .`
and execute commands with `docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot [command]`,
e.g. `docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot python3 /repo/train.py --dataset CUB --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`.

If you have a GPU and CUDA and cudnn installed, use `nvidia-docker build -t closerlookfewshot -f Dockerfile-gpu .`
and `nvidia-docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot [command]`,
e.g. `nvidia-docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot python3 /repo/train.py --dataset CUB --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`.
Change the CUDA version in `10.2-cudnn7-runtime-ubuntu16.04` (`Dockerfile-gpu`) if you have another version than 10.2.

## Protonetn
Deal with domain shift, backbone learns novel features. Also note that protonetn does not support 1-shot learning, at least two is needed for each class for further adaptation.

### Prepare datasets
3-way train, 3-way test
base_classes = ["poppy", "rose", "tulip", "palm_tree", "pine_tree", "oak_tree", "willow_tree"];
val_classes = ["orchid", "sunflower", "maple_tree"];
novel_classes = ["apple", "pear", "mushroom"];

### Train
Run
```python3 ./train.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method protonetn --start_epoch 0 --stop_epoch 100 --train_n_way 3 --test_n_way 3 --n_shot 5```

### Save Features (backbone learn and save)
There is no save features for this case, protonetn without adaptation is just train and test with protonet, and skip the save feature step, the test.py with read images directly. 

### Test (with updated backbone, should have same performance as protonet)
Run
```python3 ./train.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method protonetn --save_iter 99 --test_n_way 3 --train_n_way 3 --n_shot 5```

### Test (with updated backbone)
Run
```python3 ./train.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method protonetn --save_iter 99 --test_n_way 3 --train_n_way 3 --n_shot 5 --adaptation --new_iter 5```

## References
Our testbed builds upon several existing publicly available code. Specifically, we have modified and integrated the following code into this project:

* Framework, Backbone, Method: Matching Network
https://github.com/facebookresearch/low-shot-shrink-hallucinate 
* Omniglot dataset, Method: Prototypical Network
https://github.com/jakesnell/prototypical-networks
* Method: Relational Network
https://github.com/floodsung/LearningToCompare_FSL
* Method: MAML
https://github.com/cbfinn/maml  
https://github.com/dragen1860/MAML-Pytorch  
https://github.com/katerakelly/pytorch-maml

## FAQ
* Q1 Why some of my reproduced results for CUB dataset are around 4~5% with you reported result? (#31, #34, #42)
* A1 Sorry about my reported the results on the paper may run in different epochs or episodes, please see each issue for details.

* Q2 Why some of my reproduced results for mini-ImageNet dataset are around 1~2% different with your reported results? (#17, #40, #41 #43)
* A2 Due to random initialization, each training process could lead to different accuracy. Also, each test time could lead to different accuracy.

* Q3 How do you decided the mean and the standard variation for dataset normalization? (#18, #39)
* A3 I use the mean and standard variation from ImageNet, but you can use the ones calculated from your own dataset. 

* Q4 Do you have the mini-ImageNet dataset available without downloading the whole ImageNet? (#45 #29)
* A4 You can use the dataset here https://github.com/oscarknagg/few-shot, but you will need to modify filelists/miniImagenet/write_miniImagenet_filelist.py.

Commit message:

update readme for code delivery

README.md, after:

# A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification

This repo contains the reference source code for the paper [A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04232) in International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2019). In this project, we provide a integrated testbed for a detailed empirical study for few-shot classification.
With additions for our project work in the lecture [Optimization for machine learning](https://edu.epfl.ch/coursebook/en/optimization-for-machine-learning-CS-439) at EPFL.

To reproduce our experiments run [Experiments.ipynb](https://github.com/Baschdl/CloserLookFewShot/blob/master/Experiments.ipynb) on Colab.
Or 
Clone this repo to local and run locally.

## Citation
If you find our code useful, please consider citing our work using the bibtex:
```
@inproceedings{
chen2019closerfewshot,
title={A Closer Look at Few-shot Classification},
author={Chen, Wei-Yu and Liu, Yen-Cheng and Kira, Zsolt and Wang, Yu-Chiang and  Huang, Jia-Bin},
booktitle={International Conference on Learning Representations},
year={2019}
}
```

## Enviroment
 - Python3
 - [Pytorch](http://pytorch.org/) >= 1.0
 - json

To install the dependencies use `pip3 install -r requirements-cpu.txt -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html` or `pip3 install -r requirements-gpu.txt`.

## Getting started
### CIFARFS
* Change to directory ./filelists/CIFARFS
* run `source ./download_Cifar.sh`
For each domain-shift experiments:
* Change to directory ./CloserLookFewShot
* run `cp ./split_files/split_CIFAR_Plant2fruit.py ../ && cd ../`
* run `python3 split_CIFAR_Plant2fruit.py && rm split_CIFAR_Plant2fruit.py && cd ./CloserLookFewShot` 
* The [split_CIFAR_Plant2fruit.py] in the file name can be replaced by [split_CIFAR_Land2Aquatic.py], [split_CIFAR_Land2Insect.py], [split_CIFAR_Land2Water.py], [split_CIFAR_Outdoor2Vehicles.py] or [split_CIFAR_NoShift.py]

## Train
Run 
```python3 ./train.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method [METHODNAME] --start_epoch 0 --stop_epoch 100 --train_n_way 3 --test_n_way 3 --n_shot [N_SHOT]```

[METHODNAME] is one from baseline/baseline++/relationnet/protonet/protonetn

## Save Features
Run
```python3 ./save_features.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method [METHODNAME] --save_iter -1 --train_n_way 3 --test_n_way 3 --n_shot [N_SHOT]```

[METHODNAME] is one from baseline/baseline++/relationnet/protonet, note that for protonetn, no save_feature.py is needed.

## Test
Run
```python3 ./test.py --dataset CIFARFS --model Conv4 --method [METHODNAME] --save_iter -1 --test_n_way 3 --train_n_way 3 --n_shot $n_shot [--OPTIONARG]```

[--OPTIONARG] is --adaptation for all methods expect protonetn. For protonetn --new_iter [NEW_ITER] is optional to change the fine-tune iterations for novel set, the default value is 1.

## The original Readme from CloserLookFewShot 
## Dataset
### CUB
* Change directory to `./filelists/CUB`
* run `source ./download_CUB.sh`

### mini-ImageNet
* Change directory to `./filelists/miniImagenet`
* run `source ./download_miniImagenet.sh` 

(WARNING: This would download the 155G ImageNet dataset. You can comment out correponded line 5-6 in `download_miniImagenet.sh` if you already have one.) 

### mini-ImageNet->CUB (cross)
* Finish preparation for CUB and mini-ImageNet and you are done!

### Omniglot
* Change directory to `./filelists/omniglot`
* run `source ./download_omniglot.sh` 

### Omniglot->EMNIST (cross_char)
* Finish preparation for omniglot first
* Change directory to `./filelists/emnist`
* run `source ./download_emnist.sh`  

### Self-defined setting
* Require three data split json file: 'base.json', 'val.json', 'novel.json' for each dataset  
* The format should follow   
{"label_names": ["class0","class1",...], "image_names": ["filepath1","filepath2",...],"image_labels":[l1,l2,l3,...]}  
See test.json for reference
* Put these file in the same folder and change data_dir['DATASETNAME'] in configs.py to the folder path  

## Train
Run
```python3 ./train.py --dataset [DATASETNAME] --model [BACKBONENAME] --method [METHODNAME] [--OPTIONARG]```

For example, run `python ./train.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`  
Commands below follow this example, and please refer to io_utils.py for additional options.

## Save features
Save the extracted feature before the classifaction layer to increase test speed. This is not applicable to MAML, but are required for other methods.
Run
```python3 ./save_features.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug```

## Test
Run
```python3 ./test.py --dataset miniImagenet --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug```

## Results
* The test results will be recorded in `./record/results.txt`
* For all the pre-computed results, please see `./record/few_shot_exp_figures.xlsx`. This will be helpful for including your own results for a fair comparison.

## Docker
If you want to use Docker, build the container with `docker build -t closerlookfewshot .`
and execute commands with `docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot [command]`,
e.g. `docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot python3 /repo/train.py --dataset CUB --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`.

If you have a GPU and CUDA and cudnn installed, use `nvidia-docker build -t closerlookfewshot -f Dockerfile-gpu .`
and `nvidia-docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot [command]`,
e.g. `nvidia-docker run -v  $(pwd):/repo closerlookfewshot python3 /repo/train.py --dataset CUB --model Conv4 --method baseline --train_aug`.
Change the CUDA version in `10.2-cudnn7-runtime-ubuntu16.04` (`Dockerfile-gpu`) if you have another version than 10.2.

`

## References
Our testbed builds upon several existing publicly available code. Specifically, we have modified and integrated the following code into this project:

* Framework, Backbone, Method: Matching Network
https://github.com/facebookresearch/low-shot-shrink-hallucinate 
* Omniglot dataset, Method: Prototypical Network
https://github.com/jakesnell/prototypical-networks
* Method: Relational Network
https://github.com/floodsung/LearningToCompare_FSL
* Method: MAML
https://github.com/cbfinn/maml  
https://github.com/dragen1860/MAML-Pytorch  
https://github.com/katerakelly/pytorch-maml

## FAQ
* Q1 Why some of my reproduced results for CUB dataset are around 4~5% with you reported result? (#31, #34, #42)
* A1 Sorry about my reported the results on the paper may run in different epochs or episodes, please see each issue for details.

* Q2 Why some of my reproduced results for mini-ImageNet dataset are around 1~2% different with your reported results? (#17, #40, #41 #43)
* A2 Due to random initialization, each training process could lead to different accuracy. Also, each test time could lead to different accuracy.

* Q3 How do you decided the mean and the standard variation for dataset normalization? (#18, #39)
* A3 I use the mean and standard variation from ImageNet, but you can use the ones calculated from your own dataset. 

* Q4 Do you have the mini-ImageNet dataset available without downloading the whole ImageNet? (#45 #29)
* A4 You can use the dataset here https://github.com/oscarknagg/few-shot, but you will need to modify filelists/miniImagenet/write_miniImagenet_filelist.py.
